---
layout: page
title: Livepatching ClickHouse
description: Livepatching ClickHouse IO subsystem with eBPF and io_uring
img: assets/img/eunomia.svg
importance: 1
category: System Engineering
related_publications: false
---

This project aims to enhance the performance of distributed ClickHouse by leveraging io_uring and eBPF to optimize I/O operations across network interface cards (NICs) and solid-state drives (SSDs). Building upon previous efforts, we propose to develop a unified interface that abstracts the io_uring and eBPF interactions for SSD and NIC operations. Our solution seeks to live-patch ClickHouse I/O subsystems with io_uring methods and attach BPF programs at the edge of I/O operations with BPFTime to collect metrics and optimize performance in real-time.


<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ClickHouse.png" title="Project Design" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    This is the high level design of the project architecture, demonstrating how various components interact within the system to enhance ClickHouse's performance and form the dynamic optimization system.
</div>


In this project, we batched and linked Clickhouse IO syscalls by leveraging the advanced capabilities of io_uring, eBPF, and custom Linux kernel modules. The enhancement primarily stems from the streamlined and more efficient handling of IO operations facilitated by io_uring's asynchronous capabilities and eBPF's fine-grained monitoring and control within the kernel space. This setup allows ClickHouse to perform database operations with markedly reduced latency and higher throughput.

Additionally, we are modifying BPFTime, a userspace runtime for eBPF, to enable on-the-fly hotpatching of ClickHouse IO syscalls with XRP. This approach allows us to integrate XRP without extensive modifications to either the Linux kernel or the ClickHouse source code, keeping the changes to under 200 lines of code. This minimal intrusion is crucial for maintaining system stability and ease of deployment. 

<!-- {% raw %}
```html
<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
  <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/6.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/11.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
  </div>
</div>
```
{% endraw %} -->
